(rock music)
In my JavaScript 30 course
we did something called a ray cardio,
and I remember everyone loved it
because it's a great way to just get a lot of practice in.
And we've got a lot of real world practice
coming in in the second half of this course,
but I feel like right now we need a
little bit of practice in terms of making
columns and rows and spanning it.
Really I mean to show that we understand
placing and sizing items on our grids.
So open up, get sweaty-START,
and I in10tionally have not done these myself.
So I kinda of gonna do it along, as we do it.
So first one is: "Make the grid 10 columns wide,
"every other taking up twice the free space."
so I should also say at this point, don't,
if you haven't at least given this one a shot,
then pause this video and try to do this yourself,
but if you either aren't feeling comfortable with it
or you've give it a shot and you want
to see how I've done it, then let's go.
So giddy up.
First thing I want to do is grid,
grod, grid template columns,
and we're going to do repeat.
We want five columns, or we want 10 columns,
but every other one, so 1fr and 2fr,
and that should give us a bunch.
It's not, why?
Oh, its 'cause I missed a comma.
There we go, Okay good.
So now we are seeing our one, two,
three, four, all the way to 10 columns
and every other one is taking up twice the amount of space.
Good, I'm happy about that.
"Make the grid have 10 explicit tows, 50 pixels high each.
So grid template rows.
We are going to repeat 10 rows,
each on is going to be 50 pixels high.
Good, and now that didn't really do much,
but if we were to open up our dev tools,
and we were to take a look at our actual gid,
you'll see that the grid actually has all of this free space
in which we could use place our different items in there.
I'm actually going to leave my dev tools open.
As we did it, good, now let's get into it.
"With item one, start a column three and go until five."
So item one, we are going to say grid-column.
And we can say grid-column start
or grid column end or do it all in one.
So I want to start at three and go until five.
Good.
Then the next one: "With item two,
"start at column five and go until the end."
So item two.
Grid-column.
We want to start at five.
So this may seem weird that,
like you can end and start at the same,
but remember that the numbers are the lines
inbetween the columns and the rows
not the actual columns and rows or tracks themselves.
So start at five and then go until the end.
Well I could say 11 and that would for sure work,
but if we were to change this to being like six,
than it wouldn't work anymore.
So what I want to do is ensure that it
will always go to the end with a
negative one and that will span it to the end.
And if we were to change this to something like
10 columns or 20 columns it will always
go into the end regardless of how many
columns we are actually having.
Good, next one: "Make item five
"double span tow columns and two rows."
So dot item five.
We want to say grid-column span two.
Good.
And we also want a grid-row span two.
And it's going to be two wide and two high.
"Make item eight two rows high."
Item eight, what is that, grid-row span two.
Oh, that didn't work.
Um, item eight.
Obviously it didn't work 'cause
I didn't select the right one.
"Make item 15 span the entire grid width."
Ooo.
Item 15, so we're going to say grid-column,
and remember the trick, we're gonna start it at one.
That works.
And we're going to end it at the end, negative one.
And that will span the entire width, good.
"Make item 18 span four widths, but end at nine."
huh.
Okay so, item 18.
We want it to span four, so grid-column span four.
But we want to end it at nine, so we just say nine.
And what that will do is, here we go, 18.
It will anchier it at the end of line nine,
and then it will size itself four out from there,
so that's kind of neat to anchier it based on
where it will finish itself not where it will start.
And: "Make item 20 start at row four and go for three."
So dot item 20.
You want to grid-row.
We want to start it at row four, and go for three.
So span three.
And where do we got it?
Item 20, there we go.
It's going up.
Again, these empty spaces, we're gonna learn
all about that when we talk about dense.
Good, I'm really happy with that.
Hopefully you are a little bit more
comfortable with placing them.
Let's move onto the next which is
talking about auto fill and auto fit.
(rock music)